# simbar
Simple bar for [suckless.org](suckless.org)'s [dwm](https://dwm.suckless.org/) written in POSIX shell.
`simbar` is intended to be easily configurable and extendable.

There is color support but you have to [patch](https://dwm.suckless.org/patches/status2d/) dwm.

## usage
```console
simbar --print|--xsetroot --once|--repeat [--config /path/to/config] [--delimiter DEL]
```

### ouput modes
There are two output modes:
- `print`: Just print the bar to STDOUT.
- `xsetroot`: Set the dwm bar. You need `xsetroot` installed.

You can enable both modes at the same time.

### frequency mode
There are two frequency modes:
- `once`: Just generate the bar once.
- `repeat`: Regenerate the bar every second.

Only one of the two modes can be enable at the same time.

## config
Per default the config directory is `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-$HOME/.config}/simbar`.
In this directory you have to create a `simbar.mods` config file and a `modules` folder.

In the `modules` folder you can put all your modules.
A module is just an executable file that outputs something to STDOUT, it can be a shell script, a python script, basically anything.

In the `simbar.mods` file you have to call the modules you want to enable.
You can configure how often they should be rerun and their color.
Therefore, see the [example config](example_config).

You can change your config at runtime but don't remove or move the `simbar.mods` file.

### xgetres
Normally, you can set a specific color by adding it directly into your config but if you have `xgetres` installed,
you can replace a color code with `xgetres` and the color is generated by calling `xgetres`.

Suppose your config line looks as follows:
```
foo 5 xgetres #000000
```
In this case, the module `foo` would get called every five seconds.
Its background color would be black and its foreground color is set by `xgetres 'simbar.foo.fg'`.

## external scripts
You can update the status bar from external scripts simply by running:
```
simbar --xsetroot --once
```
No signalling needed.
